foreign
call us meeting back to order
I need a motion to come out of executive
session I'll make a motion
I second that okay I have a first by
trustee Hall second bike Vice chair
Brown to come out of second or executive
session all those in favor say aye
aye okay we're out of executive session
I need a motion for a student a
make a motion for a student a and I
guess it would be to accept
their
request yes
um
okay I have a motion on the floor from
the trusty Hall to accept student AIDS
requests I second that I have a second
from Vice chair Brown all in favor of
student AIDS request please say aye aye
aye a student AIDS request is carried
through next thing I need a motion for
uh student B uh request I'll make a
motion to approve student B's request
grab a motion from trustee Hall first
and I need a second I second I have a
second for from Vice chair Brown for
student leads request all those in favor
say aye aye those opposed
okay the motion carries it's unanimous
both students
requests were accepted
next on the agenda is
the consideration and approval of
2023-2024 drivers education contract do
I have a motion to bring it to the floor
I make a motion to bring to the floor of
the
2023-2024 drivers education contract
okay but first from trustee Hall do I
have a second I second that I have a
second from Vice chair Brown for the
2023-2024 driver's education contract do
we have representative here we do
today we typically we do
Mr chairman yes I might recommend that
the board tables discussion and bring it
up at the next meeting that we have just
to have um to find out who a good
representative for that would be to be
able to present this issue but it's been
on the agenda we could bring it back
this old business next time okay um just
a quick question though do we need to
make um is Wednesday going to be all
right do we know are they already in the
middle of it and we're sort of behind
the April
but Mr chairman trustee hauled that I
don't know
usually he's someone's here to
um
I say we table it okay uh just a second
so most likely this is for the uh fall
one then okay so I would make a motion
to table this to next week's meeting on
August 2nd Wednesday August 2nd when
we're meeting okay I have a motion from
trustee Hall to table uh this motion do
I have a second I second that I have a
second from Vice chair Brown all those
in favor say aye hi hi emotions tabled
uh
next up
um budget Gap solution work session
results there's a potential action item
on that do I have a motion to bring the
work session results to the floor
I'll make a motion to bring the present
uh the work session budget Gap work
sessions results to the floor okay I'll
second that I have a first from trustee
Hall second from Vice chair uh Brown
um okay and I'm going to stand up um
Brandy and Ron can you pull up the
presentation by any chance
I think
are you able to bring it up
solution
and this may or may not be moved
out
so did it really quick
it really could quick PowerPoint
and this was um trustee
um Barton Carlin hopefully you interview
me
um so we helped the board approved us
holding to work two work sessions so
this presentation is quickly an overview
going over those notes on June 27th
going over July 26th and then the
extracurricular co-curricular activities
broken down by season and then them
those done by schools and then a draft
concept with a community relations
facility use form and all there are a
couple there are people in the audience
and I'm going to call on them and um
to and Paul Turco who helped put the
facilities use form together and then
some considerations recommendations next
slide please thank you overview we did a
quick identify in those work sessions we
identified the priorities brainstormed
some options researched ideas including
funding Transportation facility use
agreement and now we're presenting
findings considerations and
recommendations on the June 27th work
session these are you'll see as part of
this if you go online each one of these
is broken down into like there's four
different five different documents
underneath this this is just the summary
so we looked at the budget gaps
extracurricular co-curricular and SRO
were some of those identify priorities
initial discussion looked at the
potential means of raising funds
extracurricular co-curricular discussion
items concerns were making sure that we
were in compliance with Title IX meaning
boys numbers equal girls numbers and
that will probably be be something
hopefully Mr George can help with
additional costs to the district we
talked about cleanup oversight
maintenance Transportation how to cover
that the legal issues research other
districts what we looked at are what who
I reached out to was Grangeville Twin
Falls and then via the um the community
had input on Boundary and Buell was when
I reached out to Twin Falls they had
information on Buell so Grangeville
themselves they do not pay for their
transportation for their extracurricular
co-curricular what they do is it's
sponsored at two dollars fifty cents a
mile for their activity and that pretty
much helps them except when it's really
close Twin Falls they actually pay for
their transportation for their
extracurricular but they do have a
liability form but it's used rarely and
it's in their 8 000 policy series
boundary County what we were told was it
about 200 per student and six hundred
dollars per family plus businesses
sponsor
um because if there's somebody who you
know a family that can't afford it they
businesses there's business sponsorship
and then Buell does a fifty dollar sport
up to maximum for if and then there's it
up to a maximum for a family I'm not
quite sure what that was and then field
trips are funded
um the rest of that for
um June the 27th highlights are that
Avenues to collect funds and how to
donate to District was part of the
discussion so volunteer coaches there
was um
people offered to do that ptos ptas the
Priest River Youth connection which is
being formed booster clubs and then I
think it's moss and paws in Newport
other entities we talked about Fiscal
Agent business sponsorships crowdfunding
pay to play and review facility use
agreement form August Levy Edition and
then District additional funding bottom
line people need to must trust who they
are giving to and assured donations are
used as directed intended for the July 6
we recap June 27th we list of
organizations with compiled Mission
needs to be broad enough if it's too
narrow then the dollars are taxable or
some of the considerations
p y r p r y s is the Priest River Youth
sport these are some of the places that
are potentially money could go to
booster club came up and over came up
several times and I think there sounds
like they're
um
mission statement is Broad enough so
they came up ptos Priest Lake Elementary
Priest River Idaho Hill Junior High high
school they're not as active priests
were little guys and girls wrestling
club Priest River Junior Tackle Priest
River Community Foundation in the
Newport Hospital were some of those that
were provided other ideas in terms of
the discussions were Sandpoint home
school look at those for some examples
and farmsteading homesteading possible
join in so there's a couple of other
ideas and then the last one on uh one
more there are two more I guess there's
this one in next organizations possible
Foundation to approach Idaho Community
Foundation Innova Boys and Girls Club
possibly the Kalispell tribe we also
talked about the facility use form how
many in total are given out and at each
facility estimate for cost of
Maintenance and utilities one form for
season or each game lump sum some other
questions where where do advanced
placement classes fall and then make
sure to reach out to homeschoolers and
house of the Lord and then the last one
for this group is options to give how to
give extra co-curricular activity think
about it monthly quarterly reimbursement
request encumbrance of funds if given to
District again bottom line people
willing and ready to give but need to
must trust who they are giving to
assured donations are used as directed
unintended but whoops
pause for just a second the group that
was part of the community worked at
these work sessions is there anything
else you want to add to what I just went
through really quickly
is that pretty well captured and then
Paul yours is there's a
little okay
yep
thank you
and then the next one
and again this may be mood if this money
is actually not encumbered in some other
way that were mentioned that was
mentioned earlier but here's the way I
looked at it and the the full thing that
Jared Hughes put together he did a great
job of putting together the 2023
extracurricular co-curricular activities
um the coaches and everyone and he then
did it for 2023 2024 we chose at this
point in order to make it possible
people were willing to go stay at the
2023-20 or 2022 2023 numbers
so when I broke it down by fall and the
79 slipped over there
the fall Sports Junior High and high
school were 79 553 winter sports was 55
000 496 spring Sports 46 79 40 or 70 794
dollars co-curricular totals or 33
000 139 directors and assistance were
ninety thousand two thirty four an
additional costs that were over the
seasons were 91 500 and if you estimate
it per season it would be thirty
thousand five seventeen
so the total cost was 396
000 766 based on 2022 2023 salaries what
we knew at the time was the remainder of
the 2022-2023 salary uh Levy was 3206.
um the board committed up front already
116 000 so there was a gap of about 280
766 without the levy that would be
without the levy dollars um if the levy
dollars and that could change obviously
that could change it now going back up I
did break it down by high school just to
give you a sense High School sports for
the whole year was 157 719 Junior High
47.50 564 directors assistance still
that 90 000 234 co-curricular total
additional costs over season 101 000 250
total costs again still the same 396 766
remainder same breakdown 280 766 without
that Levy dollars that are identified
there
then we went on to look at the draft
Community um con this is sort of a draft
concept because it's not a policy
looking at it for reading per se but it
is the facility use form that we have
policy 4220 and
um we looked at research and compilation
and I think Randy Randy if you can
um
if just quickly and then I'm going to
ask Paul to quickly look over what he
put together so people can but related
State set of community relations
um one of the things and and I'll let
Paul describe it but there are several
other policies that align with the 4220
so if you change that you have to look
at the others so Brandi if you can go
back and open up out of that group
the one that says at the bottom
um
draft facilities concept and we'll just
quickly go through that and and I'll let
Paul talk about where he got that from
and why we got we looked at it and maybe
can you
blow it up thank you
hello my name is Paul Turco and I hope
to fill one of the vacancies after the
August 29th vote
oh sorry okay I apologize
I took this facility use form off of the
one that we already had in the district
I didn't make too many changes I'm just
going to highlight the ones that I did
change to it the second bullet point
um the website is not working even
though it's on both forms I kept the
same website there I tried to click on
it today it was not uh the exact website
or what I was expecting to find for a
facilities calendar so that needs to be
addressed the fourth uh bullet point
this is a rental fee this is a
suggestion and before I go on any
further I looked at other districts
around the area specifically Ponderay
school district and Post Falls School
District they already have facility use
forms they have rental fees I did fill
in an hour there I highlighted it
because this is where we can start the
discussion it needs to be decided they
had up to like 75 dollars an hour
I don't know what facilities maintenance
utilities cost those things need to be
calculated into what it would actually
cost per hour per day for sport per week
but that's why that's there
so the record excuse me the rental fee
is a suggestion we need to determine all
those things they just mentioned it may
need to differ per High School per
Junior High per p e or a Priest River
Elementary or other Elementary
gymnasiums versus field use those all
may be different fees we need to have a
structured pay scale for each one of
those separately depending on what
utilities cost for each one of those it
doesn't cost the same to heat a soccer
field as it does in a key to gymnasium
so those things are what I'm talking
about
um
date and time I did make it more
specific on the old Forum it just had
date and times and like one line here
I've put the days Am Pm is it monthly is
it weekly and then the big change is uh
stemmed off of the question we had do
you have a valid Certificate of
Insurance on file at the district office
it was just a yes or a no and it is
important that you clean up after
yourself the other districts did have
another form for liability waiver I
assume this is to protect the district
so they actually have the liability
waiver form proof of certificate and
then it would be signed then you would
actually say the the rental fee
custodial fee
if you can go down to the next page this
is what I'm referring to now thank you
so this whole waiver part right here is
what is stemmed off of pretty much
Verbatim what the other districts use
they both had a waiver form like this
and if you go down a little further to
the second half of that page
so these were actually rules and this is
something that needs to be discussed
these were kind of very general rules
but rather than just assuming hey you're
going to clean up after yourself and
leave the facility in the form that was
used we kind of need to put those rules
in place and actually spell them out we
all know that if we don't spell out the
rules somebody might take advantage of
that and find a gray area
the last page is exactly the same it's
just office use approval and facility
use yes or no and then you decide on the
key card pricing and things like that so
that is completely unchanged the format
is as close I can make it to what the
original one was like the like I said
the big change is that waiver form and
then the cost of facility
thank you
thank you and that some of those things
there maybe if um Randy if you can go
back to the presentation and that last
page some of those what we'll need to do
is look at 4200 42 10 4210f those may be
overlapping with some of those things
that Paul brought out so thank you
and then the last item here is
consideration and recommendations
um Title IX if we did anything we you
know if it's not quite in in synced we
want to make sure that we're following
Title IX
um clarify the remainder of the levy
dollars and it could be the ones that
we're just showing up at you know seem
to be appearing at the county level but
what we've approved to date and this is
kind of what I am looking at is um
and I think Carlin I don't know if I can
ask you if you agree with this but is
that we use some of those funds now
because I know we're getting into the
sports season
and so um a couple of like the action
items are here is that can we use some
of that funding right now
um you know looking at some of that 116
000 that we know that we've already
approved with a budget
um possibly the 90 000 plus that goes
with the district
um the directors and the assistants
that's a 90 000 I think 553
we still have some more digging to do
finalizing the budget but we know we've
got that and that was a nice easy thing
that was there but I think it would help
organize the program
facilities use form in related other
policies we may want to look at those
more closely and update those Lake
Ponderay does have a pretty hefty you
know pretty they charge for their use of
their facilities you know it's not
necessarily free so we might want to
look at updating ours and making it
um it sounded like people were willing
to pay to use the facilities
um and again I'm looking at the fact
that right now we've gotten we've have
received money you know we have money to
work with
potentially more money than we thought
but at the same time next year we're
going to have to come to a decision in
May so you know some of these things
right now we don't want to count that
the levy is going to pass next may I
hate to say that some things we need to
be able to maybe look at some of these
things a little bit more wisely and
business like
so we might want to look at that and
then the other considerations
recommendation step is again as they're
saying looking at that 116 000 maybe
using the ninety thousand I think it was
553 that was for the district
directors and assistants to start with
and we may be able to make more
decisions next Wednesday but that would
be giving you know freeing up that money
giving some direction to it so I guess
I'm bringing to the floor of motion to
use I'll give you the exact amount
foreign
or any questions
yes please
their football and
Stadium near it charging Ambitions
that's the is what's monitored ever
considered supplementing the
programs by charging admission
and we don't have enough admission there
are enough people okay
point of order please
sir
thank you so what I would look at the
exact amount that I'm looking at
according to this
2022-2023 class
numbers that you have before you would
be making a motion
um to approve the nav so we can maybe
move forward on it it's a 19234 the
other reason I would wait on the rest of
it just to be clear is that we're still
in the middle of negotiations so we
don't want to get ahead of ourselves
that's why I'm looking at just what we
have here what we've approved we don't
want to get our heads out of our head of
ourselves in terms of our negotiations
and the negotiations and hopefully that
will come the agreement will come we'll
figure out the budget and we can do that
okay motion on the floors to
do you want to speak to us in a second
first okay
um I'll second that okay so I first from
trustee Hall's uh second from trustee
Barton all uh discussion
Mr chairman just as a point of um it's
just a logistical point the board is
already approved technically has an
approved budget so money's already been
set aside so
there's nothing that would prevent the
board from spending this money that's
already been allocated for that purpose
then can we make it uh
go ahead and say that that's what we
would like to do I mean it's a unless
it's I mean just to be clear because we
can't pay I guess I'm trying to be
organized and how it's going out until
we know for sure so in terms of priority
I guess I'm looking at directors and the
assistant directors being kind of key to
getting the program going Mr chairman
and trustee Hall I would just say
we will have an approved budget
hopefully next Wednesday
I don't think that any payments would be
made between now and then to the extent
that the board wants to get ahead of
this and make a decision it can
obviously but I would say that
I don't foresee if a world where next
Wednesday we don't already have
the budget in place to be able to
provide that and more but if if it if it
makes the if it's helpful for the board
to have this approved now I mean we have
the the budget's been rolled over in our
in in our accounting system and we have
a placeholder budget to be able to send
out POS and start populating those
things and so we have the ability to
start writing those checks because the
money's already been approved by the
board
I guess I the only thing I would say is
the priority of it just so we don't get
ahead of ourselves and we need to have
directors and it's yes and yet but I'm
just making sure that we are that just
from a logistical standpoint we can make
that happen right and I guess
I guess the only thing if I had to make
a motion
doing um
we start doing football and we don't do
something for the women we have to be
careful of that and this seemed like it
was a pretty um easy thing not to get
into Title IX yeah and I think that's Mr
chairman Madam trustee Hall that's
that's that's a really wise thing to be
aware of and I would just say that if
the motion says that these funds are to
be used in an equitable way relation
with relation to the gender of the of
the the of the activity
um and then
um to be paid for with the priority of
those of those CR those activities that
are starting within the next couple
weeks and that would be give us the
direction to know where we need to go
okay all right
sure Mr Mr chairman and so the
when the board approved the temporary
budget before they had within that
intent language that said 116 000 would
be paid for for extracurricular
activities those numbers have already
been those numbers have already been
specified by the board to use
correct and so if we're looking at what
is 93 000 or whatever that that's 90 000
to
so that number we already have a
sufficient um
uh authority to spend that money for
that specific purpose because that's
already been directed to the district by
the board to spend it for that purpose
per school policy has to commence before
so I just I I just whether you do it for
report all this happening
Mr chairman yeah Mr chairman I would
point out that it's under new business
and any item under sex under section 9
could have an action item
okay
all right
um so I guess
is there a need to amend the emotion
that I just made or just um clarified a
little bit more I think a clarification
is fine okay so
um
now it was that I'm trying to think of
what the what how we clarified it um
Carlin did you catch how to clarify that
I would clarify that um make a motion to
do a
provisional approval of all four false
sports that are commencing next week
to
approval to start them and that they
will be approved up to the 93 000 that
we have available
at our discretion
or something along those lines
that way we know our fall Sports will be
commencing well and we don't have we're
going to be over and above because right
now I guess the best direction is to
make sure that we are
approving what we can in terms of false
sports that um that are in in compliance
with Title IX would be what I would do
because then we need to look at the Gap
but I know that people are willing to
give one of the things is that people
are willing to give okay
um so what's your motion my motion would
be
um
do we need I guess wait a minute I'm
going to back up do we need there's a
High School athletic director high
school life threatic director Junior
High Athletic Director band aid and
um High School ad secretary do we need
all of those at this point in time to
start with
Mr chairman trustee Hall The High School
athletic director position is being
interviewed for
um
this week and that's that would come out
of this one then correct but that the
payment for that wouldn't occur until
September anyway so I don't think
there's any Rush on that issue and the
same thing is true of the administrative
assistant they're going to be paid on a
monthly basis so the um
they're not going to be needed to be
paid the lump sum of what their their
their contract is spread over multiple
months and so
the budget impact will be limited all
right so I guess the thing would be is
to utilize the direction provide through
um utilize the funds to help to
to cover
um the 116 000 that has been approved
that may be for whatever reason and not
until we know for the full budget and
everything the other questions it may be
totally covered but at the same time if
it's not we recognize that we are
you know not covering winter sports not
covering spring Sports not covering ex
co-curricular activities so I just want
to make sure I would say is be as
judicious as possible but cover the fall
Sports especially since they're up and
running including the concussion
um expenses and those expenses that
might be there so your motion is my
motion is to approve
the use of those hundred and sixteen
thousand dollars that we've got already
to start
give budgetary authority to spend
any invoices or payments that may become
due between now and the next time but
the the important means I will accept
yes
okay so the motion on the floor is to
use the hundred and sixteen thousand
dollars for the fall Sports to pay bills
and invoices that come due for the fall
okay do I have a second
I had second that okay or actually I
think trust deep Thornton had and she
hadn't pulled her second so trust do you
second the do you second the amendment I
guess it would be for her yes yes okay
let's look at that okay all those in
favor of the
um spending the 116 000 for
um fall Sports and paid paid bills and
invoices as do uh please say aye aye
those opposed okay the motion carries
and I I
was second motion that
that's our community use policies at
4200 series okay more closely and look
um
potentially look at updating that and
um as and look at okay so the motion on
the floor would be to review and amend
uh policy 40
it's community relations Public Access
policies it's 4200 4210 4210 f
4210 p and 4220 is to look at that group
okay Public Access do I have a second
no she stays
okay okay so I have a first and a second
all those in favor say aye aye
aye those opposed
Mr chairman just a clarification for
staff um was it the intention of the
motion maker to have that consideration
to be added a new business to the next
regular meeting or her next special
meeting of new business for next month
for the next regular meeting regular
meeting okay thank you we don't need to
I don't think we need to
all right last order last uh piece of
business uh organized curriculum
adoption committee do I have a motion to
bring the adoption committee to afford
the curriculum adoption committee to the
floor I make a motion to bring the
adoption or excuse me the
um curriculum adoption committee
to the floor okay Vice chair Brown makes
a motion to bring it to a floor do I
have a second
did Carlin second it I'll second it if
Carlin didn't okay I have a first and a
second do I have discussion
Mr chairman just to state that um as we
all know we're we're lacking a Ela
curriculum for our elementary school and
um we need to so this was added to the
agenda so that we could formally appoint
a committee
um that's consistent with Idaho law and
begin the process of adopting to be able
to review curriculum so that we could
bring this back to the to the board for
a final discrimination so we could have
an Ela curriculum for this coming school
year
okay
and Carlin Barton are we still part of
that
trustee yeah trustee Barton I would just
I would say that yes in my understanding
is and having spoke with with trustee
Brown this afternoon that you both have
the names of those that applied to be on
that committee and to the extent
possibly have already got commitments
from people we'd like to continue to
utilize those people
um and uh we'll I'll touch base with you
and we can kind of make sure that we
have that put together in a way that
makes the most sense for the for the
board
restrict in the last six months maybe we
should open that back up and have
um
the applications be resubmitted
so that we can review those with a fresh
set of eyes and that way we can go
forward with it I'm just afraid that it
has been six months and so I think that
we should probably open it up and let
the community
reapply if they'd like
um
Susan do you think that maybe we should
we should and then we can decide on a
committee for the next
board official board meeting in the
month of
August wow August I think we should
I have absolutely no
I can't talk tonight yeah I'm not
opposed to that at all I think we should
go ahead and open it up
um my only concern is and this is one of
those concerns where I hear it over and
over when you're working with the
community members is they're going I
took the effort
I'm trying can you hear me okay
um
No my only concern would be is to maybe
not open it up but to reach out
um you could open it up also but I would
as a courtesy because people took time
to fill out those applications and apply
is that you actually reach out to them
and just verify that they still want to
be considered as an rather than leaving
it to them to do it because people get
really upset when they've taken time to
go ahead and
engage and then people just sort of
shove them off to the side so I would I
would think it you can open it up to
more people but at the same time I would
reach out to those who have applied and
double check and say do you want to add
anything if you would like to add
anything to you
I think that that would be a good
opportunity to do it and then
Susan I will be back next week and maybe
we can sit and meet
me call the
obviously absolutely yeah and for
anybody that is thinking of filling out
a form you just would contact
UM
to Brandy and she'll give you an
application
how about the 10th
by the 10th
of August 4th okay
okay
sounds good and Mr chairman just uh
trustee Barton I appreciate what that my
goal is to get this moving as
expeditious as we can primarily because
I recognize that we don't have an Ela
curriculum and we have to do some
professional development with our staff
when that gets adopted and so
to the extent that we can expedite this
um I think that we we should do that but
I appreciate
um that point and we'll however we can
assist you the district office to help
do that let us know
okay
okay do I have a motion
do you need a motion for this one to
take the steps as discussed yes
okay
two I would make a motion to
um re-energize the curriculum adoption
committee okay do I have a second I
second that okay all those in favor
please say aye aye
okay
do I have a motion to adjourn yes
yes okay I'm getting adjourned I was
sick
no I recognize it myself
thank you Carl